in late 2015 Dell came out with the
first good-looking XPS 15 this was a
time where most laptops were pretty
unsightly MacBooks looked good but most
Windows laptops looked honestly quite
bad they were plastic they were thick
and if they were made of aluminum they
didn't look particularly good that first
XPS 15 was something special it looked
good it was thin it was pretty powerful
but it had thermal limitations and then
the year later they came up with a 95 60
same design but the same issues it had
Thermal limitations three years later in
2018 we have this the 95 70 and this is
a different market right now in 2018
there are a lot of good-looking thin and
light powerful laptop so it doesn't
really stick out as being the obvious
choice for someone that wants something
like this is it still good it is but
there are some issues that I have with
it now I'm not going to look a regular
review on this but I will give you kind
of like a one-minute overview it still
has the best-in-class
exterior build for a 15-inch Windows
laptop I still think the XPS 15 is the
leader it has an awesome exterior carbon
fiber stuff feels nice it's soft touch
it's durable holds up well over time
there's a decent port selection and the
Thunderbolt 3 port finally supports four
lanes of PCIe so if you want to connect
to port external GPU you're getting full
bandwidth it has an excellent track pad
good keyboard with white backlighting it
only has room for a single SSD slot
there is room for a secondary drive it's
like an optional kit but it's a SATA
drive and you also have to use a smaller
battery if you use that the speakers are
ok they're also not in the best position
there underneath the laptop the webcam
is still a nose cam it's centered this
year but it still has that unflattering
angle it has an awesome battery life
with the screen at 215 it's I'm getting
a full eight hours of battery life
that's better battery than the previous
generation the screen this is the 4k
panel and I really like it it's bright
its color accurate it's excellent for
content creation or for anyone that
enjoys a high-res high-quality screen I
think this is its best feature now I'm
going to focus the rest of this video on
what I think is the most important
feature about this device or both of
these devices it's the performance so
these devices have been upgraded from
the previous generation by a significant
amount both the CPU
and the GPU are strong performers
there's a few configurations for the CPU
the i5 and i7 are fast the i9 is faster
the GPU in this one is a 1050 Ti and it
pushes out really respectful frame rates
for most modern titles right now at
1080p and it's also great for Adobe
content the new XPS 15 is quite a bit
faster in Premiere than last year's
model now I want to talk about thermal
performance and I think this is a topic
that I think really defines this whole
product line the XPS 15 from even three
years ago if you push these devices hard
for extended periods of time you will
run into thermal throttling the i-5 and
the i7 throttle occasionally the i9
throttles a little bit more it honestly
questions why they even put the i9 into
the XPS 15 because the thermal
limitations of this chassis are quite
pronounced and just when you stick in a
very powerful chip like the i9 into this
it just you know you're losing a lot of
the value of that chip because of the
thermal design of this laptop so this
brings up the question of whether or not
this thermal stuff is a serious issue so
this is my take on it there's basically
two well three ways you can kind of look
at it one way is to look at this thermal
limitation and be like you know what if
thermal throttles deal-breaker forget
about it let's look at a different brand
the thing is I don't feel like that's a
legitimate thing there aren't really
obvious alternatives to the XPS 15 there
are devices that are similar like the
razor blade the aro 15 GS 65 but none of
them are quite like the XPS 15 this
really isn't a class of its own none of
them are built as well as this and none
of them have the super long battery life
like this it's a unique product so if
you want to find something that's like
this without the thermal throttling it
doesn't exist so there's really only two
realistic options number one you deal
with it by re pasting it and under
vaulting it I've done a video on it in
the past it's not the easiest thing in
the world it's a bit of a pain but it is
a way to get better thermals on the
ninety five seventy if you want the
other option is to understand that the
XPS 15 was not built as a gaming device
it's not built to run stuff at Full Tilt
full-bore 24/7 it is a work oriented
device it's a thin and light quiet
laptop and if they wanted to they could
crank up the fans it can
this thing louder and have better
thermal performance but it would
sacrifice a lot of what makes the XPS 15
what it is so depending on what you want
to do with this device you kind of have
to choose one of those two realistic
options now that being said I don't
think that delegates a pass anymore
when they first launched this in 2015
sure
last year is a little bit of annoying
but sure three years later I feel like
they should have found some kind of
engineering solution to make this issue
not even be an issue and there are other
devices out there now in 2018 that have
very similar performance to this like
without thermal issues and that's the
thing now if you still want that really
amazing build quality you got to stick
with this but if you're just looking for
raw performance there are other options
I've done reviews I'll link them down
below but this is what it is
it does have thermal issues yet again
and it's getting a little stale Dell
it's getting a little stale